
                     DEFINITIONS AND ACRONYMS for TCG Opal

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ATA: AT Attachment
  An interface standard for talking to storage media over a parallel bus.

CDB: Command Descriptor Block
  A SCSI command bl1ock (may contain SAT translated ATA commands).

C_PIN: Current PIN
  A table defined within the Opal protocol specifying credentials for a defined
  user or authority.

IEEE: Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers
  International standards body for many computer interfaces.

LBA: Logical Block Addressing
  A simple linear addressing scheme indexing sectors from a single number,
  instead of cylinder / head / sector.

P1667:
  IEEE standard for authenticating to storage devices.

MSID: Manufactured [Default] SID
  The factory default state of the drive owner credentials (SID).

OFS: Original Factory State

Opal: See "TCG Opal"

PATA: Parallel ATA (see ATA)

SATA: Serial ATA
  An adaptation of parallel ATA devices to a high speed serial bus, along with
  some additional commands present in the SCSI protocol.

SAS: Serial Attached SCSI
  An adaptation of parallel SCSI devices to a high speed serial bus.

SAT: SCSI / ATA Translation
  Interface defined to pass ATA commands through an existing SCSI layer.

SCSI: Small Computer System Interface
  An interface standard for talking to storage media over a parallel bus.

SD: Storage Device

SGIO: SCSI Generic I/O
  A Linux system system call allowing a user to issue SCSI commands, or ATA
  commands through the SAT translation layer, to a target hard drive.

SD: Storage Device
  A device providing long term data storage (read: hard drive).

SID: Security Identifier
  From spec: "The authority that represents the TPer owner."
  In English: The owner of the drive

SP: Security Provider
  A security function of a TPM, such as locking or authentication.

SSC: Security Subsystem Class
  From spec: "Identifies the components from the Core Specification that are
    Mandatory, Optional, Excluded, or Not Required for a particular class of
    security subsystem."

SWG: Storage Working Group
  From spec: "One of the TCG working groups whose purpose is to define security
    building blocks for the Storage Device."

TCG: Trusted Computing Group
  Standards body for the trusted computing platform.

TCG Enterprise:
  Published TCG standard for self encrypting SAS hard drives.

TCG Opal:
  Published TCG standard for self encrypting ATA (read: SATA) and SCSI hard drives.

TPM: Trusted Platform Module
  Secure coprocessor performing cryptographic and authentication services.

TPer: Trusted Peripheral
  From spec: "A Trusted Peripheral."
  In English: A component of a trusted computing platform that contains a TPM,
    such as an Opal compatible self-encrypting hard drive."

Trusted Computing Platform:
  A concept popularized by the TCG, providing a stable computing platform that
  uses strong cryptography and authentication to resist exploits, malware, and
  unauthorized access/modification.

UID: Unique Identifier
  From spec: "Unique 8-byte identifier that identifies objects within tables,
    tables, methods, and the SP itself. UIDs are unique within an SP, but not
    across SPs."

VU: Vendor Unique
